docs/search-engine.rst, before:

=============
Search Engine
=============

Mezzanine provides a built-in search engine that allows site visitors to
search across different types of content. It includes several tools that
enable developers to adjust the scope of the site search. It also includes
a Search API to programmatically interact with the search engine,
customize the way the search engine accesses different types of content,
and perform search queries that are broken down and used to query models
for results.

Search Form
===========

Developers can easily customize the scope of the searches via the
``{% search_form %}`` template tag. A default list of searchable models
can be specified in the :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` setting. Only
models that subclass :class:`mezzanine.core.models.Displayable` should
be used. In addition, the actual HTML form can be customized in the
``includes/search_form.html`` template.

.. note::

    In ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES`` and ``{% search_form %}``, all model names
    must be strings in the format ``app_label.model_name``. These models
    can be part of Mezzanine's core, or part of third party applications.
    However, all these model must subclass :class:`.Page` or :class:`.Displayable`.

Using ``{% search_form "all" %}`` will render a search form with a
dropdown menu, letting the user choose on what type of content the
search will be performed. The dropdown will be populated with all of
the models found in :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` (default: pages and
blog posts, with products added if Cartridge is installed).

By passing a sequence of space-separated models to the tag, only those
models will be made available as choices to the user. For example,
to offer search for only the :class:`.Page` and :class:`.Product`
models (provided Cartridge is installed), you can use:
``{% search_form "pages.Page shop.Product" %}``.

If you don't want to provide users with a dropdown menu, you can
limit the search scope to a single model, by passing the model name
as a parameter. For example, to create a blog-only search form, you can
use ``{% search_form "blog.BlogPost" %}``.

If no parameter is passed to ``{% search_form %}``, no drop-down will
be provided, and the search will be performed on all models defined in
the :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` setting.

Finally, by setting :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` to ``None``, the search
form will not contain a drop-down, but in this case all models that
subclass :class:`.Displayable` will be automatically searched.

Search API
==========

The main search API is provided by :class:`mezzanine.core.managers\
.SearchableManager`. This is a Django model manager that provides a custom
:meth:`.SearchableManager.search` method. Adding search functionality to
any model is as simple as using the :class:`.SearchableManager` as a
manager for your model.

.. note::

    By following the previous example outlined in
    :ref:`creating-custom-content-types` no extra work is required to have
    your custom content included in search queries, as the default search
    functionality in Mezzanine (defined in
    :func:`mezzanine.core.views.search`) automatically covers any models
    that inherit from :class:`mezzanine.pages.models.Page` or
    :class:`mezzanine.core.models.Displayable`.

In its most simple form, the :meth:`.SearchableManager.search`
method takes a single string argument containing a search
query and returns a Django queryset representing the results.
For example, to search for all pages using the
term **plans prices projects**::

    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page

    results = Page.objects.search("plans prices projects")

It's also possible to explicitly control which fields will be used for the
search. For example to search ``Page.title`` and ``Page.content`` only::

    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page

    query = "plans prices projects"
    search_fields = ("title", "content")
    results = Page.objects.search(query, search_fields=search_fields)

If ``search_fields`` is not provided in the call to ``search``, the fields
used will be the default fields specified for the model. These are
specified by providing a ``search_fields`` attribute on any model that
uses the :class:`.SearchableManager`. For example, if we wanted to add
search capabilities to our :class:`.GalleryImage` model from the previous
example in :ref:`creating-custom-content-types`::

    from django.db import models
    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page
    from mezzanine.core.managers import SearchableManager

    class Gallery(Page):
        pass

    # Added the title and description fields here for the search example.
    class GalleryImage(models.Model):
        gallery = models.ForeignKey("Gallery")
        title = models.CharField("Title", max_length=100)
        description = models.CharField("Description", max_length=1000)
        image = models.ImageField(upload_to="galleries")

        objects = SearchableManager()
        search_fields = ("title", "description")


.. note::

    If ``search_fields`` are not specified using any of the approaches
    above, then all ``CharField`` and ``TextField`` fields defined on
    the model are used. This isn't the case for :class:`.Page` subclasses
    though, since the :class:`.Page` model defines a ``search_fields``
    attribute which your subclass will also contain, so you'll need to
    explicitly define ``search_fields`` yourself.

Ordering Results
================

By default, results are ordered by the number of matches found within the
fields searched. It is possible to control the relative weight of a match
found within one field over a match found in another field. Given the
first example of searching :class:`.Page` instances, you might decide that
a match within the ``title`` field is worth 5 times as much as a match in
the ``description`` field. These relative weights can be defined in the
same fashion as outlined above for defining the fields to be used in a
search by using a slightly different format for the ``search_fields``
argument::

    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page

    query = "plans prices projects"
    search_fields = {"title": 5, "content": 1}
    results = Page.objects.search(query, search_fields=search_fields)

As shown, a dictionary or mapping sequence can be used to associate
weights to fields in any of the cases described above where
``search_fields`` can be defined.

Searching Heterogeneous Models
==============================

So far we've looked at how to search across a single model, but what if we
want to search across different types of models at once? This is possible
through the use of abstract models. :class:`.SearchableManager` is
designed so that if it is accessed directly through an abstract model, it
will search across every model that subclasses the abstract model. This
makes it possible to group together different types of models for the
purpose of combined search. Continuing on from our :class:`.GalleryImage`
example, suppose we also have a ``Document`` model containing files
uploaded and that we wanted a combined search across these models which
could both be conceptually defined as assets. We would then go ahead and
create an abstract model called ``Asset`` for the sake of grouping these
together for search::

    class Asset(models.Model):
        title = models.CharField("Title", max_length=100)
        description = models.CharField("Title", max_length=1000)

        objects = SearchableManager()
        search_fields = ("title", "description")

        class Meta:
            abstract = True

    class GalleryImage(Asset):
        gallery = models.ForeignKey("Gallery")
        image = models.ImageField(upload_to="galleries")

    class Document(Asset):
        image = models.FileField(upload_to="documents")

By accessing :class:`.SearchableManager` directly via the ``Asset``
abstract model we can search across the ``GalleryImage`` and ``Document``
models at once::

    >>> Asset.objects.search("My")
    [<GalleryImage: My Image 1>, <Document: My Doc>, <GalleryImage: My Image 2>]

.. note::

    It was mentioned earlier that the :meth:`.SearchableManager.search`
    method returns a Django queryset meaning that you can then chain
    together further queryset methods onto the result. However when
    searching across heterogeneous models via an abstract model, this is
    not the case and the result is a list of model instances.

    Also of importance is the ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES`` setting mentioned
    above. When searching across heterogeneous models via an abstract
    model, the models searched will only be used if they are defined
    within the ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES`` setting, either explicitly, or
    implicitly by a model's parent existing in ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES``.

Query Behaviour
===============

When a call to :meth:`.SearchableManager.search` is performed, the query
entered is processed through several steps until it is translated into a
Django queryset. By default the query is broken up into keywords, so the
query **plans prices projects** would return results that contain any of
the words **plans** or **prices** or **projects**.

The query can contain several special operators which allow for this
behaviour to be controlled further. Quotes around exact phrases will
ensure that the phrase is searched for specifically, for example the query
**"plans prices" projects** will return results matching the exact phrase
**plans prices** or the word **projects**, in contrast to the previous
example.

You can also prefix both words and phrases with + or - symbols. The +
symbol will ensure the word or phrase is contained in all results, and the
- symbol will ensure that no results will be returned containing the word
or phrase. For example the query **+"plans prices" -projects** would return
results that must contain the phrase **plans prices** and must not contain
the word **projects**.

Once the query has been parsed into words and phrases to be included or
excluded, a second step is performed where the query is stripped of common
words know as **stop words**. These are common words such as **and**,
**the** or **like** that are generally not meaningful and cause irrelevant
results to be returned. The list of stop words is stored in the setting
:ref:`STOP_WORDS` as described in the :doc:`configuration` section.

Commit message:

Weigh search results by age
Weigh search results by their age by default. Add a new setting,
`SEARCH_AGE_SCALE_FACTOR`, controlling how much emphasis to put on the
age when ranking results (set this to 0 to revert to the old behavior).

docs/search-engine.rst, after:

=============
Search Engine
=============

Mezzanine provides a built-in search engine that allows site visitors to
search across different types of content. It includes several tools that
enable developers to adjust the scope of the site search. It also includes
a Search API to programmatically interact with the search engine,
customize the way the search engine accesses different types of content,
and perform search queries that are broken down and used to query models
for results.

Search Form
===========

Developers can easily customize the scope of the searches via the
``{% search_form %}`` template tag. A default list of searchable models
can be specified in the :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` setting. Only
models that subclass :class:`mezzanine.core.models.Displayable` should
be used. In addition, the actual HTML form can be customized in the
``includes/search_form.html`` template.

.. note::

    In ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES`` and ``{% search_form %}``, all model names
    must be strings in the format ``app_label.model_name``. These models
    can be part of Mezzanine's core, or part of third party applications.
    However, all these model must subclass :class:`.Page` or :class:`.Displayable`.

Using ``{% search_form "all" %}`` will render a search form with a
dropdown menu, letting the user choose on what type of content the
search will be performed. The dropdown will be populated with all of
the models found in :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` (default: pages and
blog posts, with products added if Cartridge is installed).

By passing a sequence of space-separated models to the tag, only those
models will be made available as choices to the user. For example,
to offer search for only the :class:`.Page` and :class:`.Product`
models (provided Cartridge is installed), you can use:
``{% search_form "pages.Page shop.Product" %}``.

If you don't want to provide users with a dropdown menu, you can
limit the search scope to a single model, by passing the model name
as a parameter. For example, to create a blog-only search form, you can
use ``{% search_form "blog.BlogPost" %}``.

If no parameter is passed to ``{% search_form %}``, no drop-down will
be provided, and the search will be performed on all models defined in
the :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` setting.

Finally, by setting :ref:`SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES` to ``None``, the search
form will not contain a drop-down, but in this case all models that
subclass :class:`.Displayable` will be automatically searched.

Search API
==========

The main search API is provided by :class:`mezzanine.core.managers\
.SearchableManager`. This is a Django model manager that provides a custom
:meth:`.SearchableManager.search` method. Adding search functionality to
any model is as simple as using the :class:`.SearchableManager` as a
manager for your model.

.. note::

    By following the previous example outlined in
    :ref:`creating-custom-content-types` no extra work is required to have
    your custom content included in search queries, as the default search
    functionality in Mezzanine (defined in
    :func:`mezzanine.core.views.search`) automatically covers any models
    that inherit from :class:`mezzanine.pages.models.Page` or
    :class:`mezzanine.core.models.Displayable`.

In its most simple form, the :meth:`.SearchableManager.search`
method takes a single string argument containing a search
query and returns a Django queryset representing the results.
For example, to search for all pages using the
term **plans prices projects**::

    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page

    results = Page.objects.search("plans prices projects")

It's also possible to explicitly control which fields will be used for the
search. For example to search ``Page.title`` and ``Page.content`` only::

    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page

    query = "plans prices projects"
    search_fields = ("title", "content")
    results = Page.objects.search(query, search_fields=search_fields)

If ``search_fields`` is not provided in the call to ``search``, the fields
used will be the default fields specified for the model. These are
specified by providing a ``search_fields`` attribute on any model that
uses the :class:`.SearchableManager`. For example, if we wanted to add
search capabilities to our :class:`.GalleryImage` model from the previous
example in :ref:`creating-custom-content-types`::

    from django.db import models
    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page
    from mezzanine.core.managers import SearchableManager

    class Gallery(Page):
        pass

    # Added the title and description fields here for the search example.
    class GalleryImage(models.Model):
        gallery = models.ForeignKey("Gallery")
        title = models.CharField("Title", max_length=100)
        description = models.CharField("Description", max_length=1000)
        image = models.ImageField(upload_to="galleries")

        objects = SearchableManager()
        search_fields = ("title", "description")


.. note::

    If ``search_fields`` are not specified using any of the approaches
    above, then all ``CharField`` and ``TextField`` fields defined on
    the model are used. This isn't the case for :class:`.Page` subclasses
    though, since the :class:`.Page` model defines a ``search_fields``
    attribute which your subclass will also contain, so you'll need to
    explicitly define ``search_fields`` yourself.

Ordering Results
================

By default, results are ordered by the number of matches found within the
fields searched and their age.

It is possible to control the relative weight of a match found within one
field over a match found in another field. Given the first example of
searching :class:`.Page` instances, you might decide that a match within
the ``title`` field is worth 5 times as much as a match in the
``description`` field. These relative weights can be defined in the same
fashion as outlined above for defining the fields to be used in a search
by using a slightly different format for the ``search_fields`` argument::

    from mezzanine.pages.models import Page

    query = "plans prices projects"
    search_fields = {"title": 5, "content": 1}
    results = Page.objects.search(query, search_fields=search_fields)

As shown, a dictionary or mapping sequence can be used to associate
weights to fields in any of the cases described above where
``search_fields`` can be defined.

It is also possible to control the weight given to a match by its age by
customizing the :ref:`SEARCH_AGE_SCALE_FACTOR` setting. Setting this to a
high number gives more weight to the age, ranking newer matches higher
with less regard to their original weight. Setting it to zero disables
weighing matches by their age entirely.

Searching Heterogeneous Models
==============================

So far we've looked at how to search across a single model, but what if we
want to search across different types of models at once? This is possible
through the use of abstract models. :class:`.SearchableManager` is
designed so that if it is accessed directly through an abstract model, it
will search across every model that subclasses the abstract model. This
makes it possible to group together different types of models for the
purpose of combined search. Continuing on from our :class:`.GalleryImage`
example, suppose we also have a ``Document`` model containing files
uploaded and that we wanted a combined search across these models which
could both be conceptually defined as assets. We would then go ahead and
create an abstract model called ``Asset`` for the sake of grouping these
together for search::

    class Asset(models.Model):
        title = models.CharField("Title", max_length=100)
        description = models.CharField("Title", max_length=1000)

        objects = SearchableManager()
        search_fields = ("title", "description")

        class Meta:
            abstract = True

    class GalleryImage(Asset):
        gallery = models.ForeignKey("Gallery")
        image = models.ImageField(upload_to="galleries")

    class Document(Asset):
        image = models.FileField(upload_to="documents")

By accessing :class:`.SearchableManager` directly via the ``Asset``
abstract model we can search across the ``GalleryImage`` and ``Document``
models at once::

    >>> Asset.objects.search("My")
    [<GalleryImage: My Image 1>, <Document: My Doc>, <GalleryImage: My Image 2>]

.. note::

    It was mentioned earlier that the :meth:`.SearchableManager.search`
    method returns a Django queryset meaning that you can then chain
    together further queryset methods onto the result. However when
    searching across heterogeneous models via an abstract model, this is
    not the case and the result is a list of model instances.

    Also of importance is the ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES`` setting mentioned
    above. When searching across heterogeneous models via an abstract
    model, the models searched will only be used if they are defined
    within the ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES`` setting, either explicitly, or
    implicitly by a model's parent existing in ``SEARCH_MODEL_CHOICES``.

Query Behaviour
===============

When a call to :meth:`.SearchableManager.search` is performed, the query
entered is processed through several steps until it is translated into a
Django queryset. By default the query is broken up into keywords, so the
query **plans prices projects** would return results that contain any of
the words **plans** or **prices** or **projects**.

The query can contain several special operators which allow for this
behaviour to be controlled further. Quotes around exact phrases will
ensure that the phrase is searched for specifically, for example the query
**"plans prices" projects** will return results matching the exact phrase
**plans prices** or the word **projects**, in contrast to the previous
example.

You can also prefix both words and phrases with + or - symbols. The +
symbol will ensure the word or phrase is contained in all results, and the
- symbol will ensure that no results will be returned containing the word
or phrase. For example the query **+"plans prices" -projects** would return
results that must contain the phrase **plans prices** and must not contain
the word **projects**.

Once the query has been parsed into words and phrases to be included or
excluded, a second step is performed where the query is stripped of common
words know as **stop words**. These are common words such as **and**,
**the** or **like** that are generally not meaningful and cause irrelevant
results to be returned. The list of stop words is stored in the setting
:ref:`STOP_WORDS` as described in the :doc:`configuration` section.
